
--- PAGE 1 ---
HOW TO USE EFRIS WEB SERVICE API
2020/12/27 1
--- PAGE 2 ---
Requirements
The Taxpayer has completed first time registration for EFRIS on the EFRIS
test portal. https://efristest.ura.go.ug/efrissite
Upon registration,
• Taxpayer shall be assigned a virtual device number. The Taxpayer shall be required to Log
into the portal above to set the device public key. Under
• A detailed API technical document is also available for download on the test portal under
Download>>Documents.
2
--- PAGE 3 ---
Integration
Step1 Test Interface
At integration, the web service API shall be tested. Interface code T101
documented in the API technical document issued at registration shall be used.
Taxpayer will get the server time as the response. This helps the Taxpayer to
compare the time on there end with the Time at the URA server. For integration
purposes, we allow a maximum of +-10 minutes time difference between the
client and the server
3
--- PAGE 4 ---
API format
The API utilizes a generic json request format to transfer data; The protocal is
divided into three parts: data, globalInfo, and returnStateInfo. These are
defined in the API Technical document
Note:
1. The entire json string as defined in the technical document is to be
posted in the body part of the request. We only allow POST
2. We do not send anything in the header section of the request
2020/12/27 4
--- PAGE 5 ---
API modes
The API has two major modes i.e Offline and Online modes;
For both modes, the format of the posted data is the same; This format is defined in
the Technical document.
2020/12/27 5
--- PAGE 6 ---
Online Mode
The Online mode is what is defined in the shared the technical document;
These documents can also be downloaded from available on the EFRIS portal.
Visit https://efristest.ura.go.ug/efrissite , then Downloads >> Documents
2020/12/27 6
--- PAGE 7 ---
Online Mode Cont’d
The content field defined in the json string below always gets its value from what is
defined under the request part of each interface code;
The API utilizes PKI to do signing of all requests therefore you are expected to sign all
your requests using your private key.
The signature is always derived by signing using the string under the content field with
the private key. Signature = Sign(Encrypted(Content))
2020/12/27 7
--- PAGE 8 ---
Online Mode Cont’d
 Online mode utilizes AES encryption to encrypt the requests and the AES key can
be obtained using the steps below;
 The system will generate a new AES key for the taxpayer, and all transaction data
shall be encrypted/decrypted with the new AES key.
 The new AES key is always valid for 24 hours, the client needs to have it updated
every day, and the interface code for this shall be T104
 The new AES key will be encrypted using the client's public key, and the client
should use the obtained private key for decryption.
8
--- PAGE 9 ---
Online Mode Cont’d
Under the globalInfo,
1. The appId will always be APP04 for system to system.
2. Depending on which interface you the interfaceCode varies from interface to
interface
3. The requesTime will always be the current time UTC+3
4. The deviceNo will be assigned to you by URA
5. The TIN you will use the Taxpayer TIN
Note:
1. Detailsofeachfieldcanalwaysbefoundunderthefielddescriptioninthetechnicaldocument
2. Leavetheotherfieldswithdefaultvaluesasstipulatedinthedocument
2020/12/27 9
--- PAGE 10 ---
Online Mode Cont’d
Each interface has a definition of;
1. The request and expected response
2. The field Definition(s) of both the request and response fields
2020/12/27 10
--- PAGE 11 ---
Offline Mode
The offline mode can be downloaded from;
https://efristest.ura.go.ug/efrissite , then Downloads >> Application (Software)
The request format for offline mode is the same as that for online mode with the only
difference being that with the offline mode, you will always submit an empty string
under the signature value of the json string and where content is available, you will
only base64 encode it.
Note:
1. The installation guide for this can be found under Downloads >> Documents
2020/12/27 11
--- PAGE 12 ---
Integration
Note:
 The T103 interface contains some system parameters and dictionary versions.
 The client needs to save these parameters and call T103 once a day to
compare the dictionary version.
 Where the versions are inconsistent, the taxpayer need to call the
corresponding interface to update as summarized below;
Dictionary Version Field Dictionary Corresponding Interface
dictionaryVersion T115
commodityCategoryVersion T123
exciseDutyVersion T125
12
--- PAGE 13 ---
THANK YOU